Editing branch PR for new api-led core journey (#61)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-led-design.adoc

= Build an API Tutorial: Design an API Specification
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

To design an API, assess the purpose and requirements:

> * Identify the type of API. Is it a simple API, part of an integration, or part of a back-end system?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify the type of API. 
Is it a simple API, part of an integration, or part of a back-end system?
```

* Understand the data flows: one-way, two-way, or more.
* Explore the security requirements.

> Once the scope and flow of your integration project is understood,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you determine the scope and flow of your integration project,
```

Author: done

> take the first step and define an API specification in RAML (or import to RAML from OAS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first define an API specification in RAML (or import to RAML from OAS), and
```

Reviewer: I believe that the full phrase "take the first step" is not necessary, but that it further seems at odds with the four steps defined in the following text.
Is the intent here to prepare the audience for the four steps? If so, I suggest naming them all and in such a way that they precisely map to the subtasks.

Author: done

> Then, develop the apps that access the API resources.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then develop the apps that access the API resources.  
```

Author: done

== API Specifications and APIs
An API is a published interface to a resource that anyone with the correct permissions

> and properly structured request can access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a properly structured request can access. 
```

Author: done

An API specification details the functional and expected behavior of an API, 
as well as the fundamental design philosophy and supported data types.
It contains both documentation and API definitions 

> to create a contract that humans and software can read. 

Reviewer: "humans" > "users"?

Author: changed to "people"

> MuleSoft provides tools that make it easy to create an API specification that you can then share with your team or publicly.

Reviewer: How about clearer alternatives: with your team or outside of your team? privately or publicly? internally or externally?

Author: done

> The API specification increases adoption and speeds up project completion. 

Reviewer: "speeds up" > "speeds" (or "accelerates" or similar)

Author: What's wrong with phrasal verbs?

Reviewer: Translation

Reviewer: When I was teaching conversational English in Japan, I had students ask me for the logic behind the antonyms "put on" and "take off."  I ended up suggesting "dress" and "undress," when that was the intended meaning.
I think John Kohl, Global English guru, also recommends against the use of these.
Interesting discussion here: https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-collocation-compounds-and-phrasal-verbs

Author: Very cool! Done.

== Step 1: Explore Existing API Specifications

> If you look at existing API specifications before writing your own, you can learn how other people have approached similar problems. You can also check whether an asset with the same objectives is not already in development, and reuse it if appropriate.

Reviewer: "problems" only?

Reviewer: "asset"? would it be simpler to stick with "existing specification"?

Author: done.

> Looking for an API specification that already does what you need is easy:

Reviewer: It might not be necessary, but consider clarifying that you are going to offer alternatives rather than steps. 
I initially expected the latter.

Author: That's what the bullets are for. Numbers = steps, bullets = choices

Reviewer: What confused me was the imperative: Look at. Seemed like a step.

> * Look at the public Exchange. You’ll see some of the most popular API specifications, connectors, and other assets displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Look at the public Exchange. 
You’ll see some of the most popular API specifications, connectors, and other assets displayed.
```
See my earlier question about "assets." Are we looking for more than just existing API specs?

Author: leaving "assets" here.

+

> link:https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange["Take me there^", role="button-primary"]

Reviewer: I would move this link to follow the bullet-list item (the first sentence), and end that item with a colon:

* Look at...:
[link]
You'll see....
. Select....
. Click any spec....

Author: This is actually the new button. Check it out in the beta site: https://beta.docs.stgx.mulesoft.com/beta-api-core-journey/general/api-led-design

 +
Select *REST APIs* from the *Type* dropdown to display only REST API specifications. Click on any specification to see the data types and the HTTP requests defined for the API. 
+

> * To look at just the items in your organization (account) Exchange, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To look at only the items in your organization (account) Exchange, 
```

Reviewer: This seems awkward to me:

"...in your organization (account) Exchange, ...log in to your Anypoint Platform account (your account)."

Does this mean the same thing:

"To view only the items in your organization's Exchange account, log in to your Anypoint Platform account:"

Author: I thought we couldn't use possessive for non-sentient things. I can make it less awkward...

Reviewer: I've given up on the nonsentient and anthropomorphic issues, unless they are egregious.  :-)
Using "organization" as a plain adjective works: "...in your organization Exchange account."
Per your comment later, about Exchange, should this be "In your organization Exchange, log in..."?

Author: I broke it into two sentences. Thanks for flagging this awkward stce!

log in to your Anypoint Platform account (your account).
+
link:https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login["Take me there^", role="button-primary"] 

> == Step 2: Create Your API Specification

Reviewer: "Create" from scratch or using something that you found in Step 1?

Consider an initial sentence that says something like...:

"If you cannot identify an existing spec that suits your needs, create a new spec that does:
1. In [link], click the blue button...."

Author: Added text under line 42 to clarify.

Author: Done

In link:https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/["Anypoint Platform^", role="button-primary"]:

> . Click the blue button under Design Center to open the API Designer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the blue button under Design Center to open API Designer.
```

Author: done.

. Click *Create* to open the API Designer editor.
. Click *Create API specification*.

> . Enter Hello-World for *Name* and leave the other default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type `Hello-World` for *Name* and leave the other default values.
```

Author: style guide says to use bold mono. For accessibility, I'd rather avoid specifying the control "type".

Reviewer: So you will use \*`Hello-World`*\?

Reviewer: So you are changing Hello-World here to bold, as well as mono? 
Isn't ` ` mono?
So, this would be \*`Hello-World`*\?

Author: so, there are labels and the actual file and they are different. The API spec name is different from the project name...

. Click *Create Specification*.

> . The API Designer editor displays starter text. Replace it with RAML that specifies the API:

Reviewer: Will the audience know what "starter text" comprises; need we say anything more specific?
Is it boilerplate, or placeholder, text?

Author: done

Author: done

[source,raml]
----
#%RAML 1.0
title: Hello, World
version: v1
description: A greeting for the world

securitySchemes:
 basic:
   description: |
     This API supports Basic Authentication.
   type: Basic Authentication
 
securedBy: [basic]

types:
 greeting: # <2>
   properties:
     todays-greeting: string

/greeting:
 /{todays-greeting}:
     uriParameters:
       todays-greeting: string
     get: # <1>
       responses: # <3>
         200:
           body:
             application/json:
               type: greeting
         404: # <4>
           body:
             application/json:
               properties:
                 message: string
               example: |
                 {
                   "message" : "Greeting not found"
                 }
----
<1> A single HTTP request, GET

> <2> A single `dataType`, `greeting`, with a single property, `todays-greeting` (today’s greeting message). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> A single `dataType` value, `greeting`, with a single property, `todays-greeting` (today’s greeting message)
```
OR
```suggestion
<2> A single data type, `greeting`, with a single property, `todays-greeting` (today’s greeting message). 
```
Not sure we need "(today’s greeting message)."

Author: done

<3> HTTP response
<4> Error message and error handling

== Step 3: Test Your API Specification

> Now that you’ve created a Hello World specification, test it by sending a request.

Reviewer: Personal preference: "After you've..." instead of "Now."

Author: done

> The mocking service handles the creation of a functioning endpoint from your API specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mocking service creates a functioning endpoint from your API specification
```

Author: done

and provides a simple UI for managing authentication, request headers, and response headers.

To test your Hello World specification:

. link:https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/designcenter/#/projects["Open the Hello World API specification that you created in Step 2.^" role="button-primary"]

> . Click the X next to *Mocking service* to enable the mocking service. If you see a checkmark instead of an X, the mocking service is already enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the X next to *Mocking service* to enable the mocking service. 
If you see a checkmark instead of an X, the mocking service is already enabled.
```

Author: We should chat about these artificial line breaks. They should either be full paragraph breaks or not break at all.

> . Inspect the *API endpoints* that you defined. HTTP requests appear in green boxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inspect the *API endpoints* that you defined. 
HTTP requests appear in green boxes.
```

Reviewer: Here and in several instances that follow, I would not use boldface except when specifically directly the user to manipulate a UI control (click or select).
For example, I would leave "API endpoints" in plain text, because the user is looking at the values supplied rather than doing anything with the UI control: just looking at the endpoints.
An alternative would be to inspect the *API endpoints* values....
This might be too fine of a distinction to make. Some of our staff understands my thinking about this, and some do not, and I am as yet undecided as to whether it really matters. I am interested in your opinion.

Author: In this case, they have to manipulate the UI to inspect the API endpoints, on a crowded, busy UI page, so I used the bold deliberately. If I was talking more generically (i.e. I wanted them to look at the API endpoints but not right there in the UI), I'd agree with you. In general, only bold if you are referencing UI elements is what I assumed we were doing all along. Happy to chat about this.

Reviewer: Yeah.... The existing docs do use boldface for every UI element. In previous editing environments, we limited this to only those elements that the user had to click or select (not navigational elements, which would still be referred to by their labels) so as to avoid a block of bold and highlight only what the user was to DO (click, select). 
That does not mean that we have to do that in this environment. I have selected some styles that I thought had sound reasoning behind them, but, again, perhaps that reasoning does not apply here. (In DITA, it was a matter of <uicontrol> vs. <wintitle>.)

Reviewer: You are right: MuleSoft docs do use bold for every UI label. 
That can get a bit crowded, and give equal weight to navigation and user actions like "click" and "select."
The past many environments in which I have edited chose to focus on user actions (<uicontrol>) rather than nav (<wintitle>) to avoid so much bold. 
I'd be happy to discuss!

Author: I was wrong--they don't have to click API endpoints to inspect them. I've rewritten the other sentences so it's clear they need to click to see stuff.

. Click *GET* to display the GET endpoint.

> . Review the *Code examples* for each protocol.

Reviewer: Here, too, I would state the step as "Review the code examples for each protocol."

Author: Again, they need to review in the UI. If it's confusing, I can write "Click *Code examples* for each protocol to review them."?

Reviewer: That sounds good.

Reviewer: That works!

> . Review the *Security* method. *Basic Authentication* is the only option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Review the *Security* method. 
*Basic Authentication* is the only option.
```

Reviewer: If there is only one option, why must the user review it?

Reviewer: ditto: "Review the security method [which must be *Basic Authentication* ?]."

Author: added some content to clarify.

. Click *Try it*.

> . Enter values in the Authorization and Parameters tab: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter values in the Authorization and Parameters tabs: 
```

Author: done

>   .. In the Authorization tab, enter the *User name* and *Password* needed to access this endpoint. In this example, you can enter any string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. In the Authorization tab, enter the *User name* and *Password* needed to access this endpoint. 
  In this example, you can enter any string.
```

Reviewer: Similarly to above, "...enter the user name and password..." or "enter values for *User name* and *Password*...."

Author: done.

  .. In the Parameters tab, enter a value for *todays-greeting*: `Hello World`. 

> . Click *Send* to send your request to the temporary request URL that the mocking service creates from your specification. If the request is successful, you’ll see `*HTTP message 200 OK*`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Send* to send your request to the temporary request URL that the mocking service creates from your specification. 
If the request is successful, you’ll see `*HTTP message 200 OK*`. 
```

Author: removed tickmarks. It's just UI text.

. Click *Details* to examine the response headers and request headers in the mocking service to help diagnose issues or understand the behavior of your API specification.
. When you have finished testing, click the mocking service checkmark to exit.

== Step 4. Publish Your API Specification
After you have tested your API, publish it to your private Exchange so others in your organization can reuse your work.

. link:https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/designcenter/#/projects["Open the Hello World API specification.^" role="button-primary"]

> . Click Publish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Publish*.
```

Author: done

> . Click Publish to Exchange. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Publish to Exchange*. 
```

Author: done

> Now anyone in your organization can see the Hello-World API specification and reuse it.

Reviewer: "After publishing your spec, anyone...."

Reviewer: Is the spec name with or without the hyphen?

Author: it varies--I'll go through all the instances because I'm not sure I got them all right. Thanks for catching this!

Author: done

== What’s Next

> Now that you have designed an API and specified it so that anyone can use it, create a Mule app that contains the implementation and interface for the API, using Anypoint Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you design an API specification and publish it so that anyone can use it, create a Mule app that contains the implementation and interface for the API, using Anypoint Studio.
```

Author: done.

> == Developer Deep Dives

Reviewer: Will using this colloquialism be OK for translation and an international audience?

Author: Checking

Author: Translation team says not a problem.  Japanese seems to have adopted the term: ディープダイブ (dipudaibu) great question to ask, I didn't expect this answer!

If you're curious about the details, dive right in.

=== Deep Dive: Exchange

> You can publish assets to the public Exchange, your internal exchange, or your public developer portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can publish assets to the public Exchange, your internal Exchange, or your public developer portal.
```
I still balk a bit at referring to the name Exchange as a noun object.... Didn't we specify these as "accounts" earlier?

Author: it is a noun. Exchange is a thing distinct from organization/account. It's a major feature, and there are several different kinds of it.

Reviewer: So "your internal exchange" is a generic thing, not the same as the public or organization Exchange?

Author: Not generic. Exchange must always be capitalized and treated as a proper name. There are three instances of Exchange:

1. The Exchange that MuleSoft owns.
2. The private Exchange in each organization.
3. The public Exchange in each organization (which only gets created if they perform a couple of steps).

Author: Instances of Exchange, or a specific API, are important concepts. Let me know if you want to chat more about them.

Author: sorry, I read the original comment out of context. Your edits are correct. Totally my bad!

> * In addition to the public Exchange, you can review your own organization’s internal offerings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In addition to the public Exchange, you can review your own organization’s internal offerings:
```

Author: This isn't a link, it's a button. You need to look at the beta doc while you review these. Recommend two-browser setup (wide screen at work allows for this).

Reviewer: As a button, isn't this a form of illustration? I would put a colon at the end of text that introduced a graphic. 
But I get that this is not a graphic so much as a control, so...active, not an illo.

Author: No. It's a button that, if you click it, takes you somewhere. We're going to go with "Take me there" as the text for all of them.

Author: FYI, button text is sentence case: http://ux-v3.mulesoft.com/#/playground/Button
